which scientist who was once voted
Britain's favorite boffin has no eyes
the answer at the end of the show
welcome back to lateral and it's another
elimination match both of our teams here
have won one game and lost one game
which means that whoever wins tonight is
going through to the grand final and
whoever loses tonight is going home so
very best of luck to both teams let's
meet them again we have hello I'm Jeff
along with Vicki here we make
transporting travel videos on YouTube
and you are team off-peak only lovely
now you won one match by the skin of
your teeth and then you got wiped out in
the final round last time we hadn't had
enough coffee so this time we're pumped
from Kathleen's and gonna power through
all right and you are playing team
Terminator I'm Kat this is my sister
Helen and so you lost your first match
just what one second in it but then
absolutely dominated in your second
match was 23 one I think something like
that there are a lot of points so much
fun we forgot to answer any other
questions wrong that's really it's like
the trick about flying you know to fly
you just have to jump and then still
forget to fall to the ground all you
have to do is forget not to know the
answers yes that's exactly how what we
do get to lose good luck not sure that's
the best tactic but we'll see how it
goes let's do round one
the first round is called deep thought
60 seconds for each question you know
the drill by now the earlier you buzz in
the less clues you hear but the more
points you get first question is going
to go over to team off-peak only here
and we start with this
why did early US English typewriters
only have 24 letter keys so it must be a
deal with some kind of combination so
like the letter zero
which mean the number zero yeah Alan and
I letters so what two letters can you
make from you would do a combination to
get one letter this did involve making
the device cheaper okay so that would
make sense you have two keys well I'm
gonna go with because you could Allen is
probably the closest can I go with that
yeah yeah for three points I don't know
if you want to know the exact characters
but there must be two letters on the
typewriter which you combined you can
combine to make that other character so
you would hit one go backspace hit the
other another and that's how you make
that character you I cannot allow that
someone that give the rest of the
question over to you guys
if you don't know it right away but
that's gonna restart that was gonna be
man said like something out of an end it
was a particular feature of Latin
letters
[Music]
hang on wasn't F is equal to s like in
the old yeah but then what turn writers
in the story century what they didn't do
Beowulf on a typewriter
two of these letters have a special
property
they are reflective they are they lay on
top of each other yeah they have the
same sound no it isn't I'm going to
point your attention back at the
question the typewriters had 24 letter
keys but they would have had other keys
as well for the spacebar and punctuation
and for numbers and use literally gave
the correct answer which is that Oh
doubles up a zero and I doubles up as
warrants a when they gave the actual
answer yes so it's not what you actually
said it so I can't allowance on the
points so we pass over to team
terminator okay i contain appearances by
some very famous Shakespearean
characters for other men a father and
finally an American and an African a
feature parts of South Asia Canada and
Peru along the way despite some early
pieces being in Greek people all over
the globe know me word for word what am
I
I think Michael knows nothing
I mean is it something like the periodic
table okay I'm internationally important
only I know that word-for-word
internationally important is it a
declaration of independence
the the skill guides the Scout promise
collectively there's 26 of us then it's
the oh it's the alphabet it's the it's
the the alpha Papa tango the word you're
struggling for is International NATO
phonetic alphabet
exactly as soon as soon as you say that
some of the letters there I'm I'm happy
to give that to you yes if anyone want
to go through what we've got there the
Shakespearean characters Romeo and
Juliet yes there are some other male
names in there Charlie is their father
is American and African finally Yankee
and Zulu yeah that is the NATO phonetic
alphabet absolutely right for two points
next question is a picture question for
you to have a look at this Oh what two
letters are missing from this photo of a
South American capital C the question
marks on that what two letters are
missing from a South American capital do
you know the name of any South American
countries and their capitals oh yeah
they are the same letters in English
science American main some other
countries like America
I want to say you said geography le you
said you were good at jokes and the
capital is Quito I GUI T I've no idea
which country Quito is couple of
[Music]
no country is Ecuador
I guess two letters take a pump for one
point a and dead ends ed no some hunting
that over for possible points Q and O's
no now what's special about Ecuador in
its Naima it's is it to do with B oh my
God if ace I miss Mike on the equator so
the letters would be either an S for
North and South you're absolutely right
far too late and need another clue there
but yes that is north and south you are
looking at a photo of the equatorial
lying down there is even a line down the
middle looks like a compass so next
question is with you in the 1880s Lord
Salisbury namely Robert Cecil promote
his nephew AJ Balfour to several key
posts including president of the local
government board and chief secretary for
Ireland this alleged nepotism is said to
have inspired what common phrase a well
a common phrase that means nepotism it
ISM so keeping it in the family
Oh rub my back he'll rub - the family
relationship is important okay so in my
field and I call uncle something - uncle
Uncle Sam
Advanced Euler the phrase means there
you go Oh Robert Cecil Bom Bob's your
uncle is right for two points right next
two questions are on the buzzers between
both teams so if you're ready the three
communist types of these in the UK all
bare prime numbers when kept in the loop
it can save lives but becomes dangerous
if too well built many people have blown
this one overcharged both practically
and metaphorically on four points
it is a fuse it's the one out 3:30 you
are exactly right for four points
congratulations team Terminator it is a
fuse 3 amp 5 amp and 13 amp are the
common ones in the UK when kept in the
loop it can save lives because
thankfully a circuit breaker many people
have blown their fuse when overcharged
because they're angry
it's a lovely question I didn't even get
to finish it that is astonishing your
well done things on buzzers let's see if
we can get you off the mark on this one
hon what's the mistake in this quote
from a book published in 1911 covering
the Mona Lisa with the red silk the
three men took the painting to their
feet see for a short stay where
thousands told the gallery for a glimpse
until she was returned to the Louvre she
was unharmed except for two tiny
scratches that were apparently made when
the thief rolled the painting into his
toolbox
is the FE 3 not a public really physical
reason sister she was never another
one key word in that quote makes it
impossible
Jesus she can't she was
the mistake is in the last part team
off-peak by a fraction of a second I was
gonna say it says she was unharmed but
she was harmed because she was scratched
no no it's it's unharmed except for
that's not an error in there so you get
the rest of the question I suspect you
may guess immediately I'm gonna go that
she can't be rolled up is the correct
answer
Mona Lisa is painted on wood can't be
rolled up I had which means as we go
into round two the score is 10:13
Terminator and 0 to t MA
round two is second thought and there's
no need to panic yet there's still 20
points available in this round there's
plenty of time to make it back as usual
you're gonna see a board of 12 clues
pick a number reveal the clue behind it
they all match up with one idea one
concept that I've got on my card you've
got to tell me what that is
but even the ones you haven't seen yet
the earlier you get it right - the more
points you're gonna get you guys get the
first pick here pick a number five
placed on number five self image for
five points a mirror
no it's not what I've got so five points
pick a number you pick one eleven eleven
don mclean
if don mclean need an answer please
selfie stick good effort i'm fairly
certain don mclean never really had a
selfie stick but i will pass it back for
four points picking up number three
number three lost part of his left a
lake it's a bold choice but no it's not
what i've got four points pick a number
Oh again you don't need to but you may
as well pick a number six number six
night sky it is Vincent van Gogh
absolutely writing painted starry night
which is what Don McLean's sang about
lost part of his left ear I don't know
where that came from but congratulations
first choice on the next board is yours
pick a number I'm gonna pick number four
number four can be irritating I think I
know the answer to this it's me
is it now let's pick something that's
irritating is it Poland no it's not
passing it back over for possible five
points pick a number let's do the
symmetry thing number nine number nine
can be mail ordered can I say so it's
slightly sexy I'm thinking of Mathur
what a bride or wife Wow
I'm not gonna give you a second shot of
that question I'm just a file that one
away for the future do you wanna try for
four points on the tip of your finger
okay something to do with I'll notice
that's a question mark crazy guess is it
ladybirds it is not they can be mail
ordered but it's it's not what's on the
card four points pick a number number 11
number 11 left and right are often
different clubs is not what I've got so
I go down to three points team
Terminator pick a number
number five carried in a special case
[Music]
fencing equipment no I'm handing that
back over we definitely know what it is
but let's have another pick a number
here we have pick a number first seven
seven do it floats on liquid contact
lenses is exactly and that is good for
three points you off them off you have
no three points and the first choice of
an exporter number six number six often
Scottish take a guess and try not to
stereotype quite as much as Jeff's done
whiskey whiskey no is not what I have
asked it back over twelve number twelve
pink pink so pink Scottish things are
like Oh Jim gin is not what I have so
for four points number four number four
a type of game nope she would just say
random will say a word candy floss is
pink candy floss is also not what I have
on the card nine number nine can use a
ladder
oh they've both got it but you don't
need to buzz I keep saying this for four
points it is a salmon they use a ladder
to get past dams they are pink and they
are a type of game as in the venison or
something you've got around the Thames
yeah that's really cute so that is four
points and the first choice off the next
board is yours
nope ten number ten part of a speaker
like a human speaker or a magnet tone is
not the right answer
and these over possible five points pick
a number number one plate number one
users are filled oh this is definitely
some kind of signs thing so they're
gonna lap it up if we don't get it
positivity gesture I meant was we're
gonna score maximum point it forcefield
saying for you an electromagnetic wave
something science II need an answer
magnet magnet yes five points you are
exactly right
you see you said the word magnet she's
never let me answer first and if we had
we would have got five boys at the end
of that round the scores are 18 at the
team Terminator and eight to team off
people
the final round is quick thought teams
you both have 90 seconds of thinking
time but because you were 10 points in
the lead I'm going to convert those
points to seconds 5 seconds per point so
you have 50 more seconds your clock
starts at 2 minutes 20 your clock starts
at 1 minute 30 I'm afraid it is gonna
start running down first since you run
out of time you are out of the game and
out of the tournament so very best of
luck to you both
buzz in as soon as you know the answer
if you're right your opponent's clock
will start counting down if you're wrong
you will lose 10 seconds and your clock
will continue everybody ready close
enough here we go
the Chinese dish mother and child
reunion has which two main ingredients a
child so maybe it's the dish is a type
of soup one ingredient is older than the
other oness I really don't know Joanne I
just have time I guess noodles and
chicken no the last clue would have been
it doesn't matter which answer comes
first it's a chicken and an egg so ten
seconds away and your pottery starts now
which toy from 1952 was originally sold
with various pieces but without the main
body right
nowadays the main body is plastic still
and it's a spinning top but go on then
but it's probably wrong spinning top no
it's mr. Potato Head so that's ten
seconds away twenty four point five on
your clock which performer from New
Castle obtained his nickname because of
a particular striped jumper that he wore
it's singing some Newcastle go ant and
Dec it's a five letter name for five
little name strikes that I've got that
somebody within a striped shirt I don't
I don't no idea the jumper was yellow
and black name anybody that wears yellow
and black I can't I don't know do you
have any no no no there's nothing to do
if you haven't got the answer no there
isn't
ten seconds to give away so I'm afraid
for the second time in a row you did so
well in the earlier rounds do you want a
yes this thing it absolutely is because
he looked like a bee his nickname was
Sting's from Newcastle and he's from
Newcastle that's what we were looking
for I am really sorry it's the last
round has let you down again
congratulations team terminator you are
through to the grand final team off-peak
it has been lovely to have you on the
show you you can hold your head up high
you've got one victory under your belt
so congratulations on that
commiserations are not making it to the
final that you've acquitted yourselves
really well and you folks we will see
you in the final next time see you then
yeah